Minutes from 73rd OpenVDB TSC meeting, Dec 15th, 2020, (EDT)

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Ken* M., *Dan* B.

Additional Attendees: Andre Pradhana (DW)

Regrets: *Peter* C., *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) TSC Membership
4) Latest Dependencies
5) NodeUnion issues
6) Templated volumeToMesh()
7) Obsolete parms
8) 8.0.0 Release
9) Next Meeting


1) Quorum was confirmed.

2) Secretary was Dan Bailey

3) TSC Membership

Ken would like to invite Andre Pradhana to become an official TSC member.
Simplest route to achieving this is for Peter Cucka to officially nominate Andre
as his DWA replacement. Ken to reach out to Peter.

4) Latest Dependencies

Need a CI solution for building the latest dependencies, particularly the GCC
compiler and Boost. Current master breaks using GCC 10 due to removing headers
related to size_t declaration. Dan has introduced an apt-get solution that
builds against GCC 10 and resolved the size_t issue. Would be better to find a
way to build against a bleeding edge set of all dependencies.

5) NodeUnion issues

There was a breaking ABI change in the NodeUnion changes that Nick has reverted
for 8.0 and re-applied with ABI guards. Nick has also looked at expanding the
ABI checks to try and better catch this in future. Ken proposed checking data
member offsets which would help catch these ABI errors but any modifications to
the vtable would still go unnoticed.

6) Templated volumeToMesh()

There has been a question about using a templated API to volumeToMesh similar to
MeshDataAdaper. A good idea, but not a priority for the TSC and hard to make it
work efficiently using the proposal put forward as it will involve frequent
resizing. Jeff to reply.

7) Obsolete parms

Jeff found an issue with an obsolete parameter in VDB to Spheres SOP that caused
reverting of a parameter to the default value and has fixed. We should check if
there are any other cases where this comes up.

8) 8.0.0 Release

PRs to merge include PR898 (deprecating old code) once Dan has addressed
feedback from Ken and PR839 (find active values improvements) once Ken has
addressed feedback from Dan.

8.0.0 release on track to be released before Christmas.

9) Next Meeting

Next meeting is January 5th, 2020. 1pm-2pm EST (GMT-5).
