Nov. 15, 2018

Secretary – Andrew Pearce

Attendees – Nick A., Andrew P., Ken M., Jeff L., John M., Dan B., Peter C., Doug Walker

11:05 – Quorum achieved, all 5 TSC voting members on line

Ken Museth nominated as chair. Discussion of chair role & responsibility.
-	Technical direction
-	Press release
-	Represent the project on the TAC
-	Run TSC meetings

11:13 - Dan nominated, Nick seconded.  Vote called. The TSC unanimously ratified Ken Museth as chair.

Discussion of Technical Charter

Discussion of CLA Corp. vs. Individual & DCO

There is a LF CLA system – John will follow up with info. For now – email CLA to email address on the site, one of the TSC can add them to the CONTRIBUTOR file at the head of the github repo.

One person from the company can state the DCO for other individuals, or each contributor can sign the individual CLA and be added to the CONTRIBUTOR file.

TSC needs to update the license file template at the top of files. Recommend to move to SPDX. Recommend not to add dates to the license header unless TSC wants to make massive changes every January 1.

Andrew will check with the notices change for file headers & copyright holders re: DreamWorks language.

John offered to provide a modified governance document that may cover initial needs.

Target for recurring meeting is Thursday’s at 11am-12pm Pacific. For now weekly, starting Thursday, Nov 29, 2018.

When is the next major release? Pressure from the VFX Ref Platform. A new release is not realistic within two weeks. Proposal for an API / ABI change release with light-weight functional changes to prepare for future changes without having to wait a year. Dan will ask VFX Ref Platform if OpenVDB can delay until early Dec to allow time for changes to be reviewed and stabilized for a release. Also will re-send the pull request discussion around to the TSC.

Ken will maintain and set future meetings.

12:10 PM Pacific, meeting adjourned.
