Minutes from 2nd OpenVDB TSC meeting, Nov. 30, 2018

Attendees: Nick A., Andrew P., Ken M., Jeff L., John M., Dan B., Peter C., Thanh H. A quorum
was confirmed.

Secretary - Ken Museth. It was decided that in the future this role will be rotating among the
TSC members.

3) Autodesk (specifically the Bifrost team) has reached out to Ken regarding a proposal to
adopting their multi-resolution grid into OpenVDB. The committee expressed interest in
investigating this further and will compose a set of questions that will help decide if this is
feasible and beneficial. Ken will collect these equations and forward them to Autodesk.

4) Currently only Peter C. has permission to to merge pull-requests but the committee decided
that this privilege should be granted to all TSC members. Thanh H can facilitate this but will
need to check with the TAC first. All TSC members will email their GitHub emails to Ken and
he will forward them to Thanh H.

5) Dan B. informed the committee of some ongoing challenges related to our transition to the
new Continuous Integration system (Travis to Jenkins) and build system (make to cmake). Dan
suggested to downgrade the failure threshold momentarily and Thanh M will configure it.

6) Andrew brought up the need for a dedicated “Security Expert” on the project. The committee
is requesting more information about what exactly this means and John M agreed to do some
research, including to see if the Linux Foundation offers any course on this subject matter. We
also agreed to revisit this topic again.

7) Ken wanted to confirmation that we plan to offer binary distributions of OpenVDB in the
future - especially for Window. Thanh M. confirmed that this is in fact the plan.

8) Ken raised the general question of copyright notices in our source code. DreamWorks will
retain this notice in existing files, and newly added files will specify the relevant copyright
(either of the developer or their organization as appropriate). Jeff L. agreed to write up a temple
that we will add to the coding standards.

9) Dan B. is still waiting to hear back for the VFX Platform group about a December release of
version 6. His ABI changes has been reviewed and approved by Nic A. and Jeff L. agreed to try
and build them at his end. Once merge privileges has been granted to the TSC we can go ahead
to merge and release v6.0 - assuming we get the OK for the VFX Platform. Else there seems
little rush to make this release and we could potentially open up for more features to be included
in v6.0.

10) Our next TSC meeting is scheduled for next Thursday Dec 6, 2018 2pm-3pm. John M. also
offered to set up a mailing-list for the TSC.
