Minutes from 3rd OpenVDB TSC meeting, Dec. 6th, 2018

Attendees: John M., *Jeff* L., *Nick* A., *Ken* M., *Peter* C., *Dan* B., Andrew P.

A quorum was confirmed.

Secretary - Jeff Lait

3) Guidelines on Code Reviews

We will attempt the CODEOWNER files to automate assignment of initial
code reviews of pull requests.   Squashing is discouraged unless
required for bisection; but will be reviewed in a few months.  We
probably want documentation explaining how third parties can submit
pull requests; the intention is for this to be included in the CONTRIBUTING file whereas the code review guidelines will live in a process subdirectory along with any other TSC-related docs.

3a) Ken will follow up to find out when/how we can get commit bits set
for TSC members.

4) VFX Platform

The VFX platform has requested a version be ready by mid-december.
The ABI6 version has been tested on Clang versions and Houdini
versions.

It was acknowledged that a December 6.0 would be an extremely light
release - substantial upcoming features will not make it in this
window.

Motion: Release current ABI6 on git, but not make any noise about it.
Make noise about it in the new year.

Unanimous consent.

Action: Peter will merge the ABI6 pull request.

5) Questions for Autodesk

The current question list will be shared for another week to see if
there is any more input.

Dan will pose a question about the potential to use the VDB Point Grid
to dangle multi-res off the node structure.

Question for Autodesk: What do they think of VDB's LOD structure?

Question for us: What is the minimum set of tools for us to be interested?

6) Security Expert

We have specific concerns about security, likely limited to file
interporability.   This could be added to the Contributing document.
In particular, hardening VDB so it can be used as a service is of
lower importance than performance.

"We take security seriously.  Our primary concern is attacks via the
.vdb file format."

It remains unclear what is required by this role.  No one declared any
formal training in the role, and all are uncertain about the
implications of being nominated.  In particular, is the security
expert seen as having vetted the code?  Or are they just the primary
contact for security issues?

7) Website

Discussed during section 3.   Currently the build scripts and 2gb of
data needs to be migrated to allow the website to live outside of DW.
John suggested he will look into feasibility of moving to github
pages.

8) Next Meeting

Next meeting will be next week.  Unanimous consent.
