Minutes from 24th OpenVDB TSC meeting, July 25, 2019

Attendees: *Nick* A., *Dan* B., *Jeff* L., *Ken* M., *Peter* C.

Additional Attendees: Emily Olin, Daniel Elliott

Agenda:

1) Quorum
2) Secretary
3) Siggraph
4) Graduation
5) Delayed Loading PR
6) Copyright
7) Outstanding Bugs
8) Next Meeting

1) Quorum was confirmed.

2) Secretary was Jeff Lait

3) Siggraph

We have three engagements.

A) Course: Sunday 9-10:30

Nick, Dan, and Ken are presenting.

Nick will be covering AX exclusively for a 30 minute slot.  He may have
a live demo pending laptop issues.

Dan will cover in a 30 minute window:
    * VDB/OpenVDB renaming
    * Delayed Loading (still outstanding PR)
    * Point Moving (a new implementation)
    * Scattering/Merging multithreading solution.

Ken will cover parallel fast sweeping and general optimization techniques
focusing on multithreading.

B) BOF: Tuesday 9-10am

This will have a projector with HDMI but we need our own laptops.
Mikes will be setup, so we should arrive 10 minutes early.  This
will be recorded.  It is expected Q&A will be difficult so we should
have something prepared.   We can re-arrange chairs but only if we
fix it before the next session.

We have the slide templates distributed in the TSC private.

We decided discussion of the CMake project best fits in this BOF,
not in the course.

C) Internal TSC Meeting, Wednesday 11-Noon

Will be the meeting with Bifrost over multiresolution questions.

4) Graduation

TAC met to discuss the graduation and ran a vote over the email thread now
that we fulfilled the requirements.  A check of commit logs shows that we
are now graduated!   Hurrah!

Announcement of graduation will be part of press release on Tuesday,
but we can refer to it prior to then.

6.0, 6.1, and 6.2 releases should likely be grouped as 6.X release.

5) Delayed Loading PR

An existing delayed loading PR is awaiting approval.  Peter okayed
it being pushed through by Dan.

6) Copyright

The thread on how to setup copyright boilerplate on DNegs new files
for AX was left a bit vague.  We will resurrect that thread and verify
we are on the same page for what should be done.

7) Outstanding Bugs

Nick idenfitied some new issues on Mac.  Linking to python is failing
and the current concurrent allocator is crashing on his version of OSX.

8) Next Meeting

Between SIGGRAPH and various vacations this has been delayed considerably
to:

August 22nd 2019.  3pm-4pm EDT (GMT-4).
