Minutes from 37th OpenVDB TSC meeting, January 9th, 2020, (GMT)

Attendees: *Nick* A., *Dan* B., *Jeff* L.

Additional Attendees: Bruce Chernia (Intel)

Regrets: *Ken* M., *Peter* C.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Next Week's Rendering Meeting
4) Google Summer of Code
5) PR Reviews
6) VDB on Windows
7) CMake Configuration
8) Next meeting

1) Quorum was confirmed.

2) Secretary was Jeff Lait

3) Next Week's Rendering Meeting

Ken will talk to Framestore and see if we can confirm this.

4) Google Summer of Code

There is a thread on TAC mailing list.  We need 4-5 summer tasks for 12 weeks with mentorship.  Should expect it to take as much time to mentor as it would take to write.

Some ideas:
* Delayed loading on Windows
* CSG operations without rebuilding
* Integrate Ken's Levelset Sweeping
* Erosion to work better
* Blur that doesn't fail at constant tiles
    * Dilate active values apparently fixes dilate.

5) PR Reviews

562: Looks good, needs us to look at.
Ideally needs unit test, but shouldn't be submitter's task.
Performance might be a hit, doesn't seem to be, but can't tell.
Jeff to second-approve.  Nick to merge.

402: Add note to help cards for ASWF SOPs.  Peter wished a more complete implementation, but pending that we can go with this one.

579: ABS change shouldn't be done, just the ordering issue.

591: Jeff to Approve

Recent MSVC PRs: Min spec changes.  We need a CMake check to verify our MSVC version.  2017 is our MSVC requirement.

Dan to resubmit one with just the template change, and update the build
check for MSVC version.

598: VDB Merge

Jeff has not looked at it yet.  Should have everything for the inplace all requirements.

Draft PR for UI discussion incoming.

6) VDB on Windows

VDB on Windows for Houdini: We have no CI for it now.  Revisit git hub actions.  Jeff to check if there is a settings to switch off github actions for copies of the repos.  (Editor: There are)

7) CMake Configuration

Ability for OpenVDB to output the cmake module for what it was built for.  Could be a student task?  Text file to describe the cmake for what was built.  We would want Houdini to ship with this cmake file to show how it was built.

8) Next meeting

This will either be on Rendering or Roadmap.

January 16th 2020. 2pm-3pm EST (GMT-5).
