Minutes from 60th OpenVDB TSC meeting, Aug 11th, 2020, (EDT)

Attendees: *Nick* A., *Jeff* L., *Ken* M., *Dan* B.

Additional Attendees: JT Nelson (Blender), Andre Pradhana (DW)

Regrets: *Peter* C.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) Fast Sweeping
5) 7.1 Release
6) NanoVDB
7) Next Meeting


1) Quorum was confirmed.

2) Secretary was Dan Bailey

3) Forum

Request to remove v3.3.0 branch, Dan has done this. Request to improve
benchmarks, this would be good to do. Request to move INVALID_IDX definition to
header, it is believed that this is indicative of a deeper linking issue rather
than an issue in itself, Nick to reply to question.

4) Fast Sweeping

Nick advocating removing testing logic from the PR. Ken to leave in until this
feature has matured slightly, then tidy up. Brief discussion about unit testing
in general as it is solving many purposes. Would be worth separating out
benchmarks, regression tests, sample code and debugging data from unit tests.

In case of no zero crossing in all or part of a grid, Jeff wants the same
topology but different values. Never useful to know if sweep did something or
not. Algorithm should return original grid not an empty grid. Ken agreed and
will revisit this.

Andre asked about what should happen at the SOP level if a vector field is
passed in to be used for zero crossing. Should produce an error in this case.

Fast sweeping SOP can either handle pairs of grids containing one SDF and one
extension field or one SDF with multiple extension fields. Not clear what to do
here. Best option seems to be to produce a warning if more than one SDF is
passed in.

5) 7.1 Release

Dan to do 7.1 release as Ken and Nick are preparing for Open Source Day. Last
two PRs are 746 (fast sweeping) and 775 (openexr 2.5 fix). Nick to merge 775,
Ken / Dan to look at DCO issue and then once merged, 7.1 can be released.

Decision to hold off on merging other PRs until after 7.1. Next time, a separate
release branch would be preferable here.

6) NanoVDB

Question about how to deploy. Two options were considered 1) adding NanoVDB into
the existing OpenVDB repository as a "feature branch" or 2) initially releasing
NanoVDB as a separate repository and then integrate it into openvdb later. All
voted in favour of option 1.

7) Next Meeting

August 18th, 2020. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4). Open Source presentation will be August
20th. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4). Dan unable to attend next meeting.
