Minutes from 59th OpenVDB TSC meeting, Aug 4th, 2020, (EDT)

Attendees: *Nick* A., *Jeff* L., *Ken* M., *Dan* B.

Additional Attendees: Johannes Meng (Intel), JT Nelson (Blender),
Bruce Chernia (Intel), Peter Cheng (DW), Richard Jones (DNeg),
Andre Pradhana (DW)

Regrets: *Peter* C.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) Open Source Day
5) Fast Sweeping and 7.1
6) NanoVDB
7) Next Meeting


1) Quorum was confirmed.

2) Secretary was Nick Avramoussis

3) Forum

Nothing to discuss

4) Open Source Day

The ASWF is hosting an Open Source Day, with VDB having a 55 minute slot on the
20th August, 10am PDT, 6pm BST. Nick and Ken to be put down as speakers. First
half to comprise of an overview and new features/AX, with the second half
opening to an open forum discussion. Ken to draft an abstract and send to Nick
for approval.

5) Fast sweeping and 7.1

Ken has made all necessary changes. Nick, some file writes still occurring in
the unit tests. Jeff, what happens if you have a single VDB with topologically
disconnected surfaces, once which can be processed and one which can't (i.e the
second has an invalid iso crossing). Ken, not sure, will investigate and
attempt to implement desirable behaviour, ideally returning a topologically
matching VDB (for non-expanding methods) with the first valid disjoint SDF
correctly processed. Specifically with fogToSdf, the result should always match
in terms of topology. 7.1 to be delayed until this is resolved.

6) NanoVDB

Ken presented the latest work on NanoVDB, a project parallel to the OpenVDB
project which aims to solve some specific use cases with the data structure.
The presentation covered the main aims and features of NanoVDB for the TSC.
A vote was held to assess whether NanoVDB should be considered for adoption
to the OpenVDB project.

Intent to adopt: Unanimous consent.
Next steps to come after public announcement.

7) Next Meeting

Aug 11th 2020. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4).
