Minutes from 75th OpenVDB TSC meeting, Jan 12th, 2021, (EDT)

Attendees: *Nick* A., *Jeff* L., *Ken* M., *Dan* B.

Additional Attendees: Johannes Meng (Intel), JT Nelson (Blender),
Andre Pradhana (DW), Bruce Chernaik (Intel)

Regrets: *Peter* C.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) GitHub Issues
4) ASWF Questionnaire
5) SIGGRAPH
6) Listing of authors
7) [[deprecated]] C++14
8) Deprecation of visitTree()
9) Adding Half
10) VDB visualize as points tool
11) Change Logs
12) Next Meeting


1) Confirm Quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Nick Avramoussis.

3) forum

Briefly revisited the topic of Github issues vs the forum vs JIRA. Still no
consensus, TBD.

4) ASWF Questionnaire

The ASWF questionnaire has been distributed. Noted that there is a lot of
questions before you get to the OpenVDB specific section and that it
presents topics on every other ASWF FOSS too.

5) SIGGRAPH

Course vs Open Source Days. General agreement that the OSDs feel like more BOF
style presentations. Should clarify with the ASWF any expectations this year
for those days.

6) Listing of authors

Revisited the conversation on @author tagging in files. General consensus now
is that both having the names or removing them is fine, but what is the policy.
All agreed to keep the current stance, names are purely optional depending on
the author and conflicts or issues on changes can be raised on the PR in
question or with the TSC.

7) [[deprecated]] C++14

Questions about the removal of the OPENVDB_DEPRECATED macro in OpenVDB 8.0.0.
Have a macro makes deprecations easy to disable/enable per project. Most
agreed this is a useful feature. Other solutions (system includes/include
guards) are not necessarily always viable.

Vote on re-introducing the macro with an argument option for compiler
messages: Nick, Ken, Jeff for, Dan against. Passed.

8) Deprecation of tree visit() methods

Tree::visit() methods were deprecated with a message to use the
DynamicNodeManager, but this is not a simple transition. It's not a 1:1
replacement as it changes execution order and parallelism. This needs
documentation. We should only deprecate methods with similar or matching
new functionality, or provide transition guides.

9) Adding Half
10) VDB visualize as points tool
11) Change Logs

Time.

12) Next Meeting

Next meeting is Jan 19th, 2021. 12pm-1pm EST (GMT-5).
