Minutes from 90th OpenVDB TSC meeting, May 11th, 2021, (EDT)

Attendees: *Nick* A., *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Dan* B., *Andre* P.

Additional Attendees: Jeff Budsberg (DWA), JT Nelson (Blender),
Robin Rowe (Cinepaint), Richard Jones (DNeg)

Regrets: None

Agenda:

1) Confirm Quorum
2) Secretary
3) Siggraph Course
4) VDB 8.1
5) PR1040
6) PR 1031
7) PR 1033
8) TBB PR 1027
9) Other PRs
10) VDB 8.1 Schedule
11) Next meeting

1) Confirm Quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Jeff Lait.

3) Siggraph Course

Deadline is in 5 hours.  Need to final bio edits.  Five speakers, three hours,
so 36 minutes each.  Deadline for material is June 11th.  June 4th is deadline
for video without captions.  Course material will be the powerpoints/pdfs.
Represantative image will be the VDB Logo.  JT Nelson will attempt to bind it
together.  Zoom transcription only happens with paid account by recording to
the cloud.  Zoom seems to be 200mb/hour.  So should be able to get it under
1gb.  Will need a week before, so May 28th for a recording for JT Nelson to
work with.

4) VDB 8.1

Lock down 8.1 for the end of this month.  Today we should confirm ones that
need to go in.  Friday is the end for 8.1 and the RC.  Dan will not release as
he did the last two.  Ken has volunteered to do the 8.1 release.  The release
now requires the final merge of the pending_ notes.  The version number is now
easier to update with PR1040, which brings all these into CMake configured
header files.

5) PR1040

Improvements to auto generated build defines.   Moves the version to the CMake.
BuildConfig.h.in is removed, as it is moved to the version.h.in.
OPENVDB_ABI_VERSION_NUMBER is now defined by the ABI version VDB was built
with, not the major version it happened to be.  This means downstream projects
can consume VDB without caring what ABI version it was.

This should go in by 8.1 because we remove BuildConfig.h, by doing this now we
never have this file existing.

People not using cmake can't use this, so we have increased complexity for
non-cmake users.  We could add a version.h target for this.  Need to leave the
warnings in the header files rather than requiring cmake.   We don't want to
force people to use cmake.  Misconfigured project warnings should be in regular
headers.

This also adds the Windows defines required to build or use VDB.

PlatformConfig.h has moved to Platform.h. The EXR static lib flag is
questionable, as this is the role of OpenEXR, not OpenVDB.  This also vanishes
as we default away from ILM Half.  However, this may break things and the PR is
big, so we'll hold off this change.

The include order had to be changed in the unit tests as we no longer have the
windows defines on the command line.  We continue to provide them in the
FindCMake, but within the build of OpenVDB they are now only in the version.h.

6) PR 1031

VDB Merge should ideally be done for this release.

7) PR 1033

Jeff is to look at this.

8) TBB PR 1027

Still a lot actually untested, and the enqueue isn't ported yet.  Brought into
the Houdini mainline, but not critical for 8.1.  But this doesn't break
2018-2020, but might be just a partial fix for 2021.  We will wait and patch
this later.

9) Other PRs

Nick will send an email of PRs we want in 8.1.

10) VDB 8.1 Schedule

End of this week we turn off feature PRs.  End of month we release 8.1.

11) Next meeting

Next meeting is May 18th, 2021. 12pm-1pm EST (GMT-5).
