Minutes from 98th OpenVDB TSC meeting, July 13rd, 2021, (EDT)

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Nick* A., *Dan* B., *Andre* P.

Additional Attendees: JT Nelson (Blender), Richard Jones (DNeg),
Sergio Rojas, Bruce Cherniak (Intel).

Regrets: *Jeff* L.

Agenda:

1) Confirm Quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) Github Discussion
5) VFX Reference Platform 
6) Open PRs 
7) NanoVDB 
8) Next meeting 


1) Confirm Quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) Forum

There is no topic in the forum to be discussed in this meeting.

4) Github Discussion

Dan set up the Github Discussion page on the OpenVDB Github Repository. He also
moved some issues to the Github Discussion page so that we can start utilizing
this platform more.

5) VFX Reference Platform

Dan emailed the VFX reference platform. He thinks that the deadline for OpenVDB 9.0
release is September 1st.

In the last TAC meeting that Ken attended, he gave an update. The TAC invited the
two leads of the VFX reference platform. The two leads understand some confusions
that may arise from the VFX reference platform process, but they are willing
to work with the ASWF organization. They said that they finalize the list around
SIGGRAPH, but they are still open to changes. They will make their own list and
we can make comments and request changes. It is up to the VFX reference platform
to accept or reject the comments and changes. This will happen through dialogue.

Dan asks if we need to release OpenVDB 9.0 around SIGGRAPH time. Ken said we don't
need to release 9.0 around SIGGRAPH.

Dan asks if we need to do a pre-release for OpenVDB 9.0. Ken does not think we need
to do a pre-release for 9.0, but we need to start discussing what will go into 9.0.
Ken wants NanoVDB to be released with 9.0.

6) Open PRs

Dan reminded us to take a look and do code-reviews at the open PRs.

7) NanoVDB

Ken proceeds with giving a presentation on NanoVDB. JT intends to get the recording
from Ken and making a transcript for the presentation.

8) Next meeting

Next meeting is July 20th, 2021. 12pm-1pm EST (GMT-5).