Minutes from 109th OpenVDB TSC meeting, October 19th, 2021, (EDT)

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P., *Nick* A., *Dan* B., *Rich* J.

Additional Attendees: JT Nelson (Blender), Greg Hurst (United Therapeutics)

Regrets: *Ken* M.

Agenda:

1) Confirm Quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) TSC Membership Status
5) NanoVDB
6) CI / Blosc
7) String Grids
8) Grid Offset
9) Explicit Instantiation
10) Virtual Interrupters
11) Next Meeting


1) Confirm Quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Nick Avramoussis.

3) Forum

Issue #1204/ PR #1206 - Andre ran into a problem where AX wouldn't build with C++17.
We have no CI that tests against 17. Nick has fixed this and added weekly CI for C++17
for all VDB components.

Issue #1208 - Question about how to modify NanoVDB values in Houdini. Jeff to respond.

4) TSC Membership Status

Rich's TSC membership is outstanding. Nick to chase John to ask for confirmation
of membership for Rich Jones.

5) NanoVDB

Pr is still waiting on some to fix whitespace issues. Hasn't moved in a while.
Dan, will take a look. The CMake still needs work, we need to remove all
redundant options and fix TBB optional usage. The NanoVDB documentation also
needs properly integrating with OpenVDB.

6) CI / Blosc

The Houdini EULA has been updated and needs re-signing but the OpenVDB CI user
seems to have automatically been approved? CI working normally. Nick, looking
at blosc 1.17 for the next possible version of blosc. Implemented comprehensive
tests for backwards and forwards compatibility with 1.5.0, 1.17 is the next
best version as 1.11->1.14 and 1.16 has regression bugs. Nick to do a few last
tests to confirm and bump the new future minimum in VDB 9.

7) String Grids

Nick to finish this PR and get this in for 9.

8) Grid Offset

Jeff, waiting on information from Ken. We will most likely have to delay this now for ABI 10.

9) Explicit Instantiation

Dan, needs review. Nick to review the CMake. Jeff to test the build at SideFX.

10) Virtual Interrupters

Dan, ken had reservations about this but this work is ready for review.

11) Next Meeting

Next meeting is 26th October 2021, 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).
