Minutes from 138th OpenVDB TSC meeting, June 28th, 2022, (EDT)

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Nick* A., *Dan* B.,
*Rich* J.

Additional Attendees: JT Nelson (Blender), Greg Hurst (United Therapeutics),
Kyle Wardlow (United Therapeutics), Sebastian Gaida, Karl Marrett,
Bruce Cherniak (Intel)


Regrets:

Agenda:

1) Confirm Quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) vdb_tool
5) PyPi
6) Half Support
7) Next Meeting

--------------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Nick Avramoussis.

3) Forum

Nothing to discuss.

4) vdb_tool

Ken has made some improvements to vdb_tool. Still wants to get it in for 10.
Nick has some concerns about the complexity of the DSL. Nick mentions RPN is old
and not familiar. Some syntax conflicts with AX and that is confusing. We could
have used AX for this purpose. Jeff doesn't agree with the concept of adding
flex/bison/more complicated grammar. Nick argues that so long as the build
process is trivial then having a simpler language would be better. Ken to
provide more example of the language in use or otherwise highlight good ones in
the documentation.

5) PyPi

Nick to create an OpenVDB account on PyPi and work with Peyton to get pyopenvdb
transitioned and up and running. Once an account is created we need to setup
and API token.

6) Half support

Greg looking at half support. Involves swapping out most std methods for openvdb
math API methods. Greg had a concern about including Math.h everywhere but this
is usually done automatically anyway.

7) Next Meeting

Skip next week. Next meeting is on July 12th, 2022. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).
