Minutes from 135th OpenVDB TSC meeting, May 31st, 2022

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Rich* J., *Ken* M., *Nick* A.

Additional Attendees: Greg Hurst (United Therapeutics), JT Nelson (Blender), Bruce Cherniak (Intel), Sebastian Gaida

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Bug #1393
4) Bug #1397
5) Rasterize
6) PyPi account
7) Personnel change
8) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Richard Jones.

3) Bug #1393

Cannot test due to CI limitations, unable to build on Windows in Debug due to running out of memory. Most likely MSVC issue but unlikely to be solved externally, look for workaround. Suggestion of platform specific error in CMake when trying to use explicit instantiation on debug builds on Windows - 'This is an unsupported configuration due to a known issue in the linker, use -DUSE_EXPLICIT_INSTANTIATION=OFF'. Further suggestion of better documentation that explicit instantiation should be turned off for anyone developing the library itself, and turn on when deployed for use by client applications. This issue further stresses importance of raising CI limitations with ASWF as we have been unable to test this configuration. 

4) Bug #1397

Decided that topologyToLevelset should always voxelize under the hood. Need to make sure topology operations PRESERVE_TILES until after topology difference where we then voxelize.

5) Rasterize

Need to revisit unique ptr changes in future but PR should be merged today and be included in 9.1.

6) PyPi account

Discussed on email list, should put question around centralised accounts to TAC. 

7) Personnel change

Andre joining NVidia. 

8) Next meeting

Next meeting is on June 14th, 2022. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).