Minutes from 140th OpenVDB TSC meeting, July 19th, 2022

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Rich* J., *Ken* M., *Nick* A.

Additional Attendees: JT Nelson (Blender), Sebastian Gaida

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) SIGGRAPH Open Source Days
4) Houdini 19.5
5) Outstanding PRs
6) Version 10
7) Website content
8) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Richard Jones.

3) SIGGRAPH Open Source Days

Discussion of content for presentation. Decided on overview of what's coming in 10, Mathematica OpenVDBLink and other discussion. 

4) Houdini 19.5

Look to incorporate Houdini 19.5 in CI after its gold release.

5) Outstanding PRs

PR #823 - needs updating but still relevant to removing boost dependency. PR #1071, need ability to push to master on website. #1105 - look to add new tools::copyFromDenseSDF to solve, and update Python API to include this. #1282 - needs update for return in conditional. 

6) Version 10

Allow master to use C++17 from today. Can look to remove boost filesystem and boost any, still need uuid replacement. Remove support for OpenEXR 2.4 (become 3.1 minimum).

7) Website content

Have been given sign-off by SIGGRAPH to add course content to website. Should look for other content to add as well, maybe create a shared drive to contribute to. 

8) Next meeting

Next meeting is on July 26th, 2022. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).