Minutes from 127th OpenVDB TSC meeting, March 29th, 2022, (EDT)

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Andre* P., *Nick* A., *Dan* B., *Rich* J.

Additional Attendees: Greg Hurst (United Therapeutics)

Agenda:

1) Confirm Quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) OpenVDBLink
5) Next meeting 

------------------------
1) Confirm Quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary 

Secretary is Richard Jones.

3) Forum 

Request (Issue #1337) for forward declarations of grid types in Grid.h. Consensus is that this would be a good addition but some care might need to be taken with nested typedefs/sharedptrs. 

4) OpenVDBLink

Greg has go-ahead to contribute OpenVDBLink (Mathematica OpenVDB plugin). Needs updates for docs and error handling. Has a lot of unittests already. Need to figure out CI and some dependency issues. This will be made into a feature branch to iterate upon. 

5) Next meeting 

Next meeting is in one week, April 4th, 2022. 12pm-1pm EST (GMT-5).