Minutes from 124-th OpenVDB TSC meeting, March 15th, 2022, (EDT)

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Nick* A, *Dan* B., *Rich* J., *Andre* P.

Additional Attendees: Sebastian Gaida, Serjio Rojas, Greg Hurst
(United Therapeutics), Kyle Wardlow (United Therapeutics).

Regrets: None

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Open Source Day
4) Siggraph 2021 Course
5) Half in-memory support
6) Windows CI breakages
7) Next meeting


--------------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Dan Bailey.

3) Open Source Day

Ken gave an overview of the project to the TAC and mentioned our desire for
wider build machines in our CI. Short window in which to present so not much
discussion or follow up on this point.

4) Siggraph 2021 Course

Can we put the recording online? Do we have the rights to do this?

The course notes are already available as a PDF through Siggraph's OpenTOC
initiative.

Ken to reach out to Fernando to find out about our rights.

5) Half in-memory support

All in agreement that this would be good to aim to include in v10 and
potentially backporting to v9 if ready in time. Dilation is slow, better to do
it natively. Main issue is the compute type, need to promote the type to avoid
truncation or precision issues. Rather adhoc how this is implemented currently,
some algorithms always use doubles, others uses native type.

When will a half type be natively included in stdlib?

Dan to create a feature/half branch for us to collaborate on pushing this
forward.

6) Windows CI breakages

Dan proposes switching it off in the interim, Nick to investigate as it looks
trivial to resolve.

7) Next meeting

Next meeting is at March 22nd, 2022. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).
