Minutes from 150th OpenVDB TSC meeting, October 11th, 2022

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Rich* J., *Ken* M.

Additional Attendees: Greg Hurst (United Therapeutics), Sebastian Gaida

Regrets: *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) CI issues
4) Boost removal
5) Version 10
6) Proposed CoordBBox change
7) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Richard Jones.
 
3) CI issues

There are some issues with the weekly CI, seems to include LLVM 15 based problems. Houdini CI for 19.5 has issues with liblzma (from ASWF boost container), incompatible with Houdini 19.5 version and not namespaced. Will discuss with SideFX to namespacing lzma. 

4) Boost removal

Considered trying to get all of boost removal in for 10, decided that may be too soon and we should prioritise making it optional for 10.1. Still need resolution on whether uuid from vdb_tool is sufficient to replace existing. Existing PRs towards this: #744 boost/any, #731 string, #823 delay loading optional. 

5) Version 10

Set deadline for merging PRs as next meeting 18/10/22. Will look to release on 25/10/22, Andre will perform release. Main outstanding work in PRs #1351 #1418 and #1488. Re: OpenVDBLink testing Andre will also verify successful compilation before merging. Some build settings to be finished. 

6) Proposed CoordBBox change

Ken suggested to change CoordBBox to return array size 2 of Coords over individual members to allow indexing. This will be looked at for 10.1. 

7) Next meeting

Next meeting is on October 18th, 2022. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4).