Minutes from 142nd OpenVDB TSC meeting, August 16th, 2022, (EDT)

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Nick* A., *Dan* B.,
*Rich* J.

Additional Attendees: Yoshua Nava, Peter Cheng (DW), Karl Marett,
Sergio Rojas (Different Dimension), Sebastian Gaida


Regrets: *Ken* M.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Siggraph
4) VDB 10
5) Houdini and VDB 10, PR 1445
6) PR 1439
7) PR1440
8) MSVC Bug
9) Next meeting

--------------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Jeff Lait

3) Siggraph

NeuralVDB is blasted everywhere.  Definitely the most talked about VDB
item.  Jeff provided his possibly wrong summaries, but we look forward
to more details from Ken.

4) VDB 10

Matehmatica bindings were promised for VDB 10.  But CI and build are
needed for it.  If we fail at CI, we need at least a third party to
install it successfully.  Andre can test, but We are missing someone
to test on Windows.  New projects should always provide CMake to come
in.  Note Nick will not be around for pre-VDB10-release cmake help.

We don't have any ABI changes.  Are there any we want to add?   What
about Root Node Mask?  This pre-dated VDB being open so could be
cleaned out.   Any virtuals to remove?

We could change leaf iterators to store a pointer to buffer rather than the
node.  Likewise with the accessors.  Avoids the delay-load test.

5) Houdini and VDB 10, PR 1445

New warnings show up in NanoVDB with new compilers in NanoVDB, Andre
to clean up.

Blosc is bumping to 1.17, so need to add to the containers.

Adding houdini includes causes very weird linker failures.  If we can
fix this, we can go to C++17.

Both 19.0 and 19.5 fail with these undefined symbols.  It could be
boost is linking in the houdini lzma.  Maybe the core shouldn't be
adding houdini dsolibs to the build.  Try to bring in tbb/blosc
directly without bringing the entire folder?  If boost was rpathed
directly to its lzma, it might also be fine.

6) PR 1439

Fix clamping in vdb visualize sop.  Dan is looking for sign off.

7) PR1440

Fixes for merge tool in sum mode, and ready for Maximum mode.  Again,
looking for sign off.

8) MSVC Bug

Issue 1446, 1385.  This appears to be an MSVC bug.  We have a PR to
remove boost::any or move to std::any.  Perhaps any change will work?
Edward's workaround might work.

Can we get a more conformant set of switches?  Doing this triggers
other incompatibilities though.  Setting /permissive- will get us
closer to other compilers.  Linux and Clang already are default
conformant.  MSVC defaults to permissive.

This particular problem is a bug with MSVC.

Edward can try a /permissive- on separate branch and see if thre is a
simple patch.  We could also break it up into component flags and
slowly turn on.

9) Next meeting

Next meeting is on August 23rd, 2022. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).
