Minutes from 137-th OpenVDB TSC meeting, June 21st, 2022.

Attendees: Jeff L., Nick A, Dan B., Ken M., Rich J., Andre P.

Additional Attendees: Sebastian Gaida, Peter Cheng (DW), Greg Hurst
(United Therapeutics), Peyton Murray, Sergio Rojas, Karl Marret, Jamie

Regrets: None

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) TAC Update
5) Half
6) OpenVDB Mathematica Link
7) VFX Reference Platform
8) Value Accessor on LeafNode
9) Next meeting

--------------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) Forum

Nothing to discuss from the Forum.
4) TAC Update

a) Emily Ollin wants to setup a process for releasing major versions for all
   projects. Regarding the 9.1 release, Ken will send an email to the larger
   OpenVDB ASWF mailing list. Dan will make an announcement on twitter.

b) PyPi We should create our own account. This is what OpenTimeIO has done.
   We will follow their example.

c) CI Amazon has hardwares that we should be able to use. It is being used by
   OpenColorIO. The process still works through Github Actions, but the host
   machines are different. It has to be approved by the ASWF governance board.
   Once this is approved, we can follow up to change the CI machines.

There is a slack channel hosting this ASWF CI topic.

5) Half

Greg met with an Autodesk representative. Greg's plan is to use half as a
first-class citizen in OpenVDB and to do computations in floats, but to store
the results in halfs. He plans half for the OpenVDB 10 release in October.

Autodesk cannot use NanoVDB because they need to perform dilation before
performing motion blur.

6) OpenVDB Mathematica Link

Greg is optimistic that we can find a working solution to have a Wolfram Engine
for the purpose of contributing to OpenVDB.

7) VFX Reference Platform

Jeff Lait said that VFX Reference Platform now lists OpenVDB 10, unless we fail
to release version 10 by October 2022, under the CY2023 draft.

8) Value Accessor on LeafNode

Nick improved the VolumeToMesh tool in OpenVDB by making it up-to-date with
C++11 and C++14. He also improved the use of Leaf Node Value Accessor by creating
a new wrapper that pulls the buffer data in order to avoid atomic access with
delayed-loading. The whole effort makes the tool 10-15% faster.

Nick will do a PR on changing the Leaf Value Iterator of the Leaf Node.

9) Next meeting

Next meeting is on June 28th, 2022. 1pm-2pm EDT (GMT-4).
