Minutes from 158th OpenVDB TSC meeting, January 10th, 2023

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Nick* A.,  *Dan* B., *Rich* J., *Andre* P.
           *Greg* H.

Additional Attendees: Sebastian Gaida, JT Nelson

Regrets: None

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Boost Discussion
4) Meeting with Wolfram's representative
5) Greg's TSC membership
6) PR-1547: Value Accessor
7) PR-1559: VDB Advect Points
8) PR-1563
9) NanoVDB Update
10) Next Meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) Boost discussion

Confirming that OpenVDB still requires boost dependency even if a user turns
delayed loading off. Right now, if a user turns off delayed loading, it turns
off bringing boost. This will be fixed.

Right now, boost dependency includes uuid, numeric_traits, boost string algorithm, and
boost any. The string boost PR would fix the boost string dependency. Jeff Lait will
take a look at UUID.

4) Meeting with Wolfram's representative

Need to set up a meeting with a representative with Wolfram for legal purposes.
Greg Hurst and John Mertic should be there. Greg will follow this up.

5) Greg's TSC membership

Ken will send an email to John Mertic to add Greg as a TSC member. He will also
update MAINTAINERS.md and CODEOWNERS document in the repo. Dan will add Greg
as a reviewer for the repo.

6) PR-1547: Value Accessor

This is ready to go. This is an impressive work. Everything works without needing
to change the client's code. It reduces the number of lines of code and avoids
code-duplication. Every test that Nick ran is faster and the algorithm does not
change. It is easier to add new method to the accessor and easier to test.

Ken asks Nick to add an example of what needs to be added if somebody needs to
add a new method.

Nick will assume ownership and responsibility for the code.

7) PR-1559: VDB Advect Points

Fixes an issue that was broken 3 years ago. Jeff will take a look at it.

8) PR-1563

Removing some constexpr stuffs that gives warning. Ken affirms that eliminating
support for bool grids in VDB LOD SOP/Multires grid is the right thing to do.
Ken affirms that it is fine.

9) NanoVDB Update

Ken will do a NanoVDB update the next time we meet.

10) Next Meeting

Next meeting is at January 17th, 2023. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4).
