Minutes from 168th OpenVDB TSC meeting, June 23rd, 2023

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Greg* H.

Regrets:
Attendees: *Nick* A., *Rich* J.

Additional Attendees: JT Nelson, Karl Marrett

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) PR 1626
4) OpenVDB Course
5) Releases
6) Multiresolution
7) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Jeff Lait.

3) PR 1626

Legit and will approve.  This is a new prime number choice for the
hash.

4) OpenVDB Course

Plan is to submit lecture notes after course.  But last week got an email
suggesting we haven't submitted any thing.  Will refer back to that
conversation.

We could shorten Ken's intro too.  This depends on number of people.  Fifteen
minutes per person.

Dan wishes to discuss Explicit Template instantiation.

We probably need an introduction that covers internal nodes.

How to split it up for developers vs users?

Jeff B and Greg Hurst are user facing (Houdini and Mathematica).  Others are
more low-level developer.  Greg Karr for topology edits on GPU.  

Do we have a present, future, and users?

Andre will add to the examples directory the smoke solver & flip solver.
Where should the examples live?  In the openvdb/openvdb/examples?   Or off the 
base level?  The latter allows AX to be integrated, but we may not want AX for
a lean example.

5) Releases

We need a 10.1 before we branch to 11, aiming around September.  There
is a big NanoVDB dump incoming.

6) Multiresolution

Technical document and repo is availble for discussing.   We should read and
then ask questions about it.  NanoVTT to be a grid-based multi-res system.
Unlike VDB, this has a meaning: Voxel Tile Trees.  

Is VTT an intrinsically different structure, or a variation of VDB?

7) Next meeting

Next meeting is on July 11th, 2023. 2pm-3pm EDT.
