Minutes from 161st OpenVDB TSC meeting, February 7th, 2023

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Ken* M., *Greg* H., *Rich* J.

Additional Attendees: Sebastian Gaida

Regrets: *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) SIMD Discussion
4) Siggraph Course
5) Private Email Alias
6) VDB Clip SOP
7) End
8) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Dan Bailey.

3) SIMD Discussion

Nick unable to attend, discussion on SIMD will be postponed until next week.

4) Siggraph Course

Ken proposed a list of topics for the proposed Siggraph 2023 Course via email. Will create a Google doc for us to collaborate on, then submit online. Acceptable to present much of the same content as before with updates. Will be in person, not pre-recorded. Course is proposed to be the same length as in previous years.

5) Private Email Alias

Andre not getting the private emails, suspect it is on his Dreamworks account still. Greg to check his email too.

6) VDB Clip SOP

ILM to contribute overscan clipping soon, may require changes to GU_PrimVDB.

7) End

No further topics, meeting ended early.

8) Next meeting

Next meeting is on February 14th, 2023. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4).
