Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, June 25th, 2024

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Greg* H., *Rich* J, *Andre* P.

Regrets: *Nick* A., *Dan* B.

Additional Attendees:
Dhruv Govil (Apple), Jonathan Swartz (NVIDIA), Francis Williams (NVIDIA),
John Mertic (The Linux Foundation), J. T. Nelson (Blender)

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) CLA Language Option
4) License change PRs
5) NanoVDB Review
6) fVDB PR
7) Half Grid
8) SIGGRAPH OpenVDB BoF (Birds of a Feather)
9) Next Meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) CLA Language Option

John Mertic brings up the possibility to update the CLA (Contributor
License Agreement) for the OpenVDB project: one is using the Linux-Foundation
short form and then other one using Apache-style CLA. The advantage of moving
to a new CLA is to align the project with other organizations, reducing
possible friction for contributors to contribute. Ken will send an email to the
private TSC mailing address and we will take a vote.

4) License change PRs

Ken and Andre will work on merging more relicensing PR.

Dhruv will write the script that will change the license identifier
from MPL 2.0 license to Apache 2.0. He will submit a PR.

We need ILM sign-off for license change.

5) NanoVDB Review

Andre is trying to get unblock on the failing NanoVDB Windows CI.

Andre suggests a name change from nanovdb::callNanoGrid to nanovdb::processTypedGrid
to reflect what is available on openvdb.

6) fVDB PR

We want to get fVDB to merge in before SIGGRAPH. We need more progress
in the fVDB Code Review.

7) Half Grid

Greg asks for more progress on the Half Grid PR. So far, Greg has been battle-testing
the Half-Grid PR and found no issues with it. Andre will write more unit tests after he
is done with the NanoVDB PR.

8) SIGGRAPH OpenVDB BoF (Birds of a Feather)

SIGGRAPH OpenVDB BOF is on Monday at 9 a.m.

9) Next Meeting

Next meeting is on July 2nd, 2024. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4).
