Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, May 21st, 2024

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Greg* H., *Rich* J, *Ken*
M..

Additional Attendees: 
Rabih, Matthew Cong (NVidia), Jonathan Swartz, Francis Williams.

Regrets: *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) TAC Update
4) PR 1807 & CI Updates
5) fVDB Updates
6) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Jeff Lait.

3) TAC Update

Proposed NanoBind and asked for GPUs on CI runners

Apparently we already have a service for GPUs, which is paid for, but
the ASWF seems fine with that.  Apparently used by ColorIO, so we can
ask them for advice.  We might want to avoid using GPU machines for
the build?  But that would require build artifacts.  There is some
experience at NVidia splitting the GPU and CPU CI tests.  Ken will get
instructions on how to run on at all, that we'll test with fVDB first.

There is a CI slack channel we can go to for more aid as well.

NanoBind was presented to the TAC as well.  Positive feedback.  They
seem okay with us using it moving forward.  It is also suggested other
projects will move to Nanobind.  

Nanobind does not provide an interpreter, but can be called from a
host's own interpreter.

4) PR 1807 & CI Updates

Mac runner has to update to latest version.

Cuda compiler is failing with 11.5.  This is Oct 2021, so we should
drop support?  Matthew Cong will take a look at it.

Missing Changelist, which Andre will provide. 

5) fVDB updates

Who should review this?  Do we avoid NVidia-centered review?  So long
as it is supported and git hub issues are supported not much concern.

The TSC members are needed to sign off, but do not have to be the
"actual" reviewers. These can be reviewed by non-TSC members, and TSC
members can approve the reviews.

Initial version should be 0.X as API can change.

6) Next meeting

Next meeting is on May 28th, 2024. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4)
