Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, March 12th, 2024

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Greg* H., *Richard* J.

Additional Attendees: Ivo (Autodesk), John Mertic (Linux Foundation), Dhruv Govil (Apple)

Regrets: *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Moving to Apache 2.0 License
4) PR-1760
5) Half-Grid Support Presentation by Greg
6) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) Moving to Apache 2.0 License

We decided to try to move from Mozilla Public License to Apache 2.

The key part of the process is that you cannot change the entire license until
every contributor is on board.

The reason we are moving to Apache 2 are: (1) many other ASWF projects are using
it, (2) it protects the project from patents disputes. The disadvantages of MPL
are: (1) any contributor can pull out their contributor and (2) the difficulty to
reliable proof that what is in the system comes from a particular source code.

Ken will share a google doc with a summary on why we are moving to Apache 2.0.
We will use this draft to communicate to contributors to sign their approval for
moving to Apache 2.0.

John Mertic will contact DreamWorks to inform them of this decision and to
follow through with the proces.

It is noted that what we need are contributors after the year 2018, since the
previous contributors are covered by DreamWorks.

4) PR-1760
Dan talks about Initial Adaptive Grid Prototype (PR-1760).

Dan tried to use the Point Advection class and go through the interpolation
through a different type of Grid. To make it work, Dan needs to modify the use of
Value Accessor, which was designed for Sparse Grid. He changed it to use an
Accessor from the Tree class itself. Essentially, this is pushing the creation of
an Accessor down into the Tree.

All the unit tests pass.

Dan asks for people to look at the PR and to provide feedback. He will try to
fix the Windows build problem. He suggests that we notify AutoDesk of this PR.

5) Half-Grid Support Presentation by Greg

Greg extended the support of HalfGrid to other tools, such as
CreateLevelSetSphere, FastSweeping, LevelSetFilter, LevelSetMeasure,
LevelSetMorph, LevelSetSphere, LevelSetTracker, LevelSetUtil, MeshToVolume,
RayIntersector, RayTracer, SignedFloodFill. He experiments with LevelSetFilter.

We discuss ValueType and ComputeType, which is similar to StoreType and
ReturnType.

6) Next meeting

Next meeting is on March 19th, 2024. 2pm-3pm EST (GMT-5).
