Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, February 13th, 2024

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Andre* P, *Dan* B., *Greg* H.

Additional Attendees: 

Regrets: *Ken* M., *Rich* J.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Greg GitHub Write Access
4) Half Grid Support
5) PR Review
6) Issues/Discussion Review
7) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Dan Bailey.

3) Greg GitHub Write Access

Greg to contact John Mertic / LF to be added to ASWF members, then can be granted OpenVDB write
access. Email address is configurable within GitHub account.

4) Half Grid Support

Andre to work on serialization support next. After some discussion this work will be pushed to a 
feature branch so that Greg and Andre can collaborate. Existing PRs to be re-targetted to merge
into this feature branch, no requirement for code review merging this branch, no need for Greg to
have write access.

5) PR Review

#1763 - Looks correct, Dan to approve. Reported and fixed by USD.
#1755 - Needs DCO and CLA. Jeff to reply.
#1753 - Needs more discussion with Nick and Ken.
#1751 - Feedback has been addressed, Dan to approve and merge.

6) Issues/Discussion Review

#1765 - Confirm that nothing has changed on our end. Need more information, Dan or Nick to reply.
#1764 - Valid request, Dan to reply inviting a contribution.
#1748 - Interesting suggestion, no known real world application. Greg to reply.
#1745 - Seems like some build configuration information missing. Andre to attempt to replicate and
then reply.

7) Next meeting

Next meeting is on February 20th, 2024. 2pm-3pm EST (GMT-5)
