Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, July 2nd, 2024

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Greg* H., *Rich* J, *Ken* M., *Andre* P.

Regrets: *Nick* A., *Dan* B.

Additional Attendees:
Dhruv Govil (Apple), Jonathan Swartz (NVIDIA), Francis Williams (NVIDIA),
JT Nelson (Blender)

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) CLA Voting
4) PR for License Change
5) NanoVDB Code Review
6) fVDB PR
7) Siggraph BOF
8) Blender
9) Next Meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) CLA Voting

We voted to move the our CLA to the one used by most other ASWF
projects.

4) License Change PR.

Dhruv puts a PR for updating the license change: [PR-1858](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/pull/1858).

5) NanoVDB Code Review

Linux CI is currently not passing. Suggests a named change from
callNanoGrid to nanovdb::processTypedGrid since it provides the
same functionality as the openvdb counterpart.

6) fVDB PR

fVDB Branch needs to be public in github and it should be visible.
The first step is to reopen the fVDB PR. Need to add link to the
fVDB documentation in the OpenVDB website. We need CI to build docs
for fVDB.

7) Siggraph BOF

SIGGRAPH BOF is Monday, July 29 at 9 a.m.

8) Blender

OpenVDB in blender is working with Open3D Engine.

9) Next Meeting

Next meeting is on July 9th, 2024. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4).
