Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, April 30th, 2024

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Dan* B., *Greg* H., *Rich* J., *Andre* P

Additional Attendees:
Matthew Cong (NVIDIA), Alexandre Sirois-Vigneux (SideFX),
Efty Sifakis (Univ. Wisconsin), Francis Williams (NVIDIA),
Jonathan Schwartz (NVIDIA), Michiel Hagedoorn
Dhruv Govil (Apple), Tom (Sidefx), Rayhaan Tanweer,
Rabih, Youmna, Shahan N

Regrets: *Jeff* L., *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Migration from PyBind11 to NanoBind
4) Greg's ASWF membership
5) FVDB
6) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) Migration from PyBind11 to NanoBind

Matthew Cong presented a solution to handle NanoBind dependency
by using pip. He has done work on the NanoBind-side to allow this workflow.
The solution with Git-subtree/submodule is brittle because it
can run into firewall issues.

It was re-iterated that NanoBind is preferred because of zero-interop
on the GPU side.

Dhruv Govil pointed out that PyBind is used by other projects
for its support for multiple inheritance (which NanoBind doesnâ€™t
support).

4) Greg's ASWF membership

Greg will follow up with John Mertic to be added to ASWF organization.

5) FVDB

NVIDIA team presented a presentation on fVDB, a project that is for
consideration to be adopted by OpenVDB project. It is a framework to
do spatial reasoning on 3D volumetric dataset, which includes deep-
learning.

The main dependencies is pytorch. The project will live in its own
directory, parallel to the `openvdb` directory.

Ken will bring up the need for GPU-support in the CI in the TAC meeting.
TSC members will be added to the private fVDB repository for further
investigation. Jonathan Schwartz provided us with documentation.

6) Next meeting

Next meeting is on May 7th, 2024. 2pm-3pm EDT (GMT-4)
