Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, March 26th, 2025

Attendees: *Dan* B., *Andre* P, *Jeff* L., *Nick* A., *Greg* H.

Additional Attendees: Dhruv Govil (Apple), Mathew Cong (NVIDIA),

Regrets: *Ken* M.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) PR1935
4) PR2016
5) NanoVDB PointsToGrid Hashing
6) New VDB Release
7) PR2008
8) PR2011
9) Next Meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Dan Bailey.

3) PR1935

Levelset Tapered Tubes. Dan has approved, does not need another approval as Greg is TSC member,
Greg can merge.

4) PR2016

Jeff fixed a NanoVDB bug with a missing assignment during transpose that prevented round-tripping.
Remains to be seen how many downstream consumers will need to adapt as a result. Nick suggested
adding nodiscard keywords to the transpose methods to generate compiler warnings for these cases.

5) NanoVDB PointsToGrid Hashing

Jeff has implemented a faster version of points to grid hashing that does not sort. As a result
this method is non-deterministic. For cases where this doesn't matter can be much faster. Andre
confirmed that NVidia has a similar Cuda implementation but has not been made open-sourced.

6) New VDB Release

Nick to do the release now CI is looking healthier.

7) PR2008

This has huge impact on Windows, but ultimately should apply to Linux as well. Needs another
approval.

8) PR2011

Andre working through supporting half in math functions for Vec3 types. Currently failing
Windows CI.

Autodesk still interested in instantiating half grids when reading float grids from disk. Main
motivation is to reduce peak memory usage. Brief discussion of a more substantial change to be
able to convert any convertible grids on load. Simpler solution of only handling float->half
conversion is less likely to stall.

9) Next Meeting

April 9th, 2025, usual time
