Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, June 4th, 2025

Attendees: *Ken* M., *Andre* P, *Dan* B.,  *Jeff* L., *Nick* A.

Additional Attendees: Jonathan Swartz (NVIDIA), Alexandre Sirois-Vigneux (SideFX)

Regrets: *Richard* J., *Greg* H.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) OpenVDB Course
4) Moving to OpenVDB Org
5) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

We have quorum.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) OpenVDB Course

Finalizing OpenVDB Course Agenda. The Agenda is the following:

- Introduction
 - OpenVDB
 - NanoVDB
 - Dilation
 - Future
- fVDB
 - Introduction (10 min) Illustrate how this thing is and how it works.
 - Notebook how-to
 - High level application that fVDB is shipping in: segmentation, gaussian splatting, TSDF diffusion
- Applications
 - VDB in Production
 - Material Point Method
 - Elliptic Particle surfacing
 - ML Particle surfacing
 - SDFs of capsules and curves
- Coding
 - Half float support
 - Iterators and parallel

Jonathan

4) Moving to OpenVDB Org

Jonathan has worked on taking out `openvdb_maya` to the OpenVDB Org. The intent
is to archive it, signaling it as unsupported. Archiving the repository
(GitHub “read-only” status) will serve as a clear indicator of its deprecated
status.

CLA (Contributor License Agreement) Issues: Andre volunteered to contact DreamWorks
to verify CLA coverage for openvdb-dev team account managed by DWA.

Jonathan will add everyone in the TSC to the OpenVDB Org as admin.

Suggestion on creating a Google Doc to outline which repos should be created. The
OpenVDB website and Dan's SIGGRAPH 2021 example codes were suggested
(https://github.com/danrbailey/siggraph2021_openvdb).

5) Next meeting

June 18th, 2025 1 pm PT.