Minutes from OpenVDB TSC meeting, January 8th, 2025

Attendees: *Dan* B., *Jeff* L., *Greg* H., *Andre* P

Additional Attendees: Jonathan Swartz (NVIDIA), Dhruv Govil (Apple)

Regrets: *Ken* M., *Richard* J., *Nick* A.

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) fVDB
4) Unit test for remove divergence
5) Next Release
6) VDB Course for SIGGRAPH 2025
7) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre Pradhana.

3) fVDB

Need access to the amazon code build resources because it is blocking merge fvdb to master branch.

4) Unit test for remove divergence

[PR-1994](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/pull/1994).

This unit test shows a path on how to use Poisson Solver and how to create
a divergence free velocity field on a MAC grid.

5) The Next Release

- Levelset tapered tube.

- Anisotropic surfaces.

- Half Grid support:
    - Need to take out `ComputeType` template from the Grid and Tree class.
    - Need to fix unit tests.
    - Need to cleanup the current `feature/half_grid_support` to pass the CI.

- Fix clang template errors (contributed by Dhruv Govil).
This is [PR-1977](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb/pull/1977). It is already merged in.

- LevelSet Fillet
    - Rename it to OpenVDB_SDF_Blend.
    - Add unit test for it.
    - Change the license.


6) VDB Course for SIGGRAPH 2025

Jonathan Swartz started a google doc to keep track of topics.
[Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiCfi5slMoA3S6bcJdxI8rvGJoQps7QzKeic9LKP-xs/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.se6zgosgwalo).

Here are a few topics came up in the discussion:
- MPM in Houdini with Alexandre
- NanoVDB Advances with Ken
- fVDB with Jonathan, Francis
- OpenVDB Capsules with Greg
- OpenVDB Half Grid with Greg
- OpenVDB Iterators, Parallel Patterns, etc with Dan

7) Next meeting

Next meeting is Tuesday Jan 22, 2025 at 11:00 PST.
